+++
title = "First evaluation of the microbiome of built cultural heritage by using the Ion Torrent next generation sequencing platform"
date = "2018-12-31"
draft = false

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Justyna Adamiak", "Anna Otlewska", "Hakim Tafer", "Ksenija Lopandic", "Beata Gutarowska", "Katja Sterflinger", "Guadalupe Pinar"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference paper
# 2 = Journal article
# 3 = Manuscript
# 4 = Report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book section
publication_types = ["1"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
# publication = "In *International Conference on Multimedia and Expo Workshops (ICMEW)*, IEEE."
# publication_short = "In *ICMEW*"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "The aim of this study was to detect the community structure of Bacteria and Archaea, especially halophilic microorganisms, involved in the biodeterioration of historic building materials, as brick and paint coating. The Ion Torrent™ sequencing technology platform was used for the first time to analyse these materials. Amplicons were generated by using universal, bacteria- and archaea-specific primers, all flanking the V4 hypervariable region of the 16S rDNA, in order to compare the sensitivity of taxon detection. Results showed that the Ion Torrent™ sequencing platform has an enormous potential to evaluate the microbiome of historic building materials in a fast and easy way. The brick sample displayed a total of 1178 genera belonging to 27 bacterial and 3 archaeal phyla, while the paint coating showed 145 genera belonging to 11 bacterial phyla. Members of the Actinobacteria were dominant in both samples. Halophiles were detected in both materials showing to be important colonizers when salty micro-niches are available in the surfaces of the buildings. Nevertheless, analyses showed to be influenced by the primer choice, and bacteria- and archaea-specific primers confirmed the occurrence of primer bias, as they enabled the unspecific detection of Archaea and Bacteria. The results derived from universal and archaeal-specific primers were comparable, except for Nitrospirae, detected only using universal primers. These data clearly showed the impact of primer choice on the structure of the microbial communities, pointing out the need of a carefully choice of primers. Therefore, we recommend using, in addition to the universal primers, bacteria- and archaea-specific primers in order to cover a higher taxonomic diversity."
# abstract_short = "A mobile visual clothing search system is presented whereby a smart phone user can either choose a social networking image or capture a new photo of a person wearing clothing of interest and search for similar clothing in a large cloud-based ecommerce database. The phone's GPS location is used to re-rank results by retail store location, to inform the user of local stores where similar clothing items can be tried on."

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter your project's folder or file name without extension.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references 
#   `content/project/deep-learning/index.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
projects = []

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = []

# Links (optional).
# url_pdf = "10.1016/j.ibiod.2017.01.040"
# url_preprint = "#"
# url_code = "#"
# url_dataset = "#"
# url_project = ""
# url_slides = "#"
# url_video = "#"
# url_poster = "#"
# url_source = "#"

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Digital Object Identifier (DOI)
doi = "10.1016/j.ibiod.2017.01.040"

# Does this page contain LaTeX math? (true/false)
math = false

# Featured image
# To use, add an image named `featured.jpg/png` to your page's folder. 
# [image]
#  # Caption (optional)
#  caption = "Image credit: [**Unsplash**](https://unsplash.com/photos/pLCdAaMFLTE)"
#
#  # Focal point (optional)
#  # Options: Smart, Center, TopLeft, Top, TopRight, Left, Right, BottomLeft, Bottom, BottomRight
#  focal_point = ""
+++

